Some notes for our project:




So what do we want to actually implement or do?

1. We know that currently our CCTV starts as soon as it opens.

2. This is to reduce privacy issues.

3. We track for individuals, which is counted on the bottom using a visual text display.

4. Good, we track number of people.

5. First off, we need to implement the capturing system. Right now it captures, but we want it to capture just the essentials.

6. We can capture 10 seconds before and 10 seconds after someone is noticed. But for a real world situation we can choose duration length. 

7. That covers capturing, we would just store this to a file where the date, time and location name is chosen by the user --> use f"{}"

8. Emailing system is fine, we can see if we can email the video otherwise leave it as this could take alot of storage on someones phone.

9. But for the email, we gotta think of the intervals we should email to notify. Perhaps if there is someone detected, we can wait 5 seconds to see if the person count goes back to 0, otherwise email every 2 minutes?


As of tonight: 10/01/2026

We have utilised a buffer to pretty much implement a first in first out. Now we need to
fix the frame rate so that our output video matches the right speed and frame rate otherwise its too fast.
Furthermore, we need to fix the datetime and etc. 
We need to write about this in our notebook, and explain how we utilise a buffer and the theory behind it. 
Try avoid AI from now on so we can actually learn a bit more. 

13/01/2026:

We implemented a countdown and for system activation as this is better, giving users more time to leave the property etc.
But now we may have found the issues for the playback:

1. only when people_counter == 0, do we write to the video writer. (I think its only recording first instance of intruder).
2. we need to somehow make it so it still records regardless?
3. logic rn is that if people dissapear, a 30 second timer elapses and records it all. But if anyone pops back in, then it resets it. 
4. add a flag to let the system know that it has detected someone? dont reset anything? 

5. okay we now know how --> add another time for 10-30 seconds after, then we can shutoff (release).
6. The issue was that the -= 1 for post timer event was so fast also our if condition (if people <= 0 and recording) was not good. 

7. Where are we at now? Add logging text also implement email logic? Maybe add it so it emails when the clip ends too? 
8. Also one issue, what happens if they keep popping back and forth? How will the system handle that? 